#summary How to correctly setup database encoding, about character encoding.

= Introduction =

If you have some issues with the character encoding in your application (e.g. you see characters replaced with '?'), then this page may be usefull for you, I hope.

= Database encoding =

The first task is to correctly upload the dump into MySQL. (The zero task is to download parsed Wiktionary database from this site.)

I prefer several commands in windows command-line cmd.exe:
{{{
mysql$ CREATE DATABASE enwikt20100824_parsed;
mysql$ USE enwikt20100824_parsed
mysql$ SOURCE path_to_file.sql
}}}

See, e.g.: [http://code.google.com/p/wikokit/wiki/File_wikt_parsed_empty_sql File_wikt_parsed_empty_sql]

My connection parameters (from Java source code):

"enwikt20111008_parsed?useUnicode=false&characterEncoding=ISO8859_1&autoReconnect=true&useUnbufferedInput=false";


There are the following parameters of the parsed Wiktionary database in MySQL:
{{{
mysql> SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'character_set%';
}}}

|| Variable_name            || Value  ||
|| character_set_client     || latin1 ||
|| character_set_connection || latin1 ||
|| character_set_database   || latin1 ||
|| character_set_filesystem || binary ||
|| character_set_results    || latin1 ||
|| character_set_server     || latin1 ||
|| character_set_system     || utf8   ||

= Application level =

As I understand, all information (in Wikipedia and Wiktionary databases) is stored in binary format.
MySQL thinks (see table above) that the data are stored in the `latin1` format. 

So in Java code I am using the following function to decode text from
binary (bytes) to UTF8:

{{{
str_sql.append("SELECT text FROM wiki_text WHERE id=");
str_sql.append(id);
ResultSet rs = s.executeQuery (str_sql.toString());

String text = bytesToUTF8(rs.getBytes("text"));

...

public static String bytesToUTF8(byte[] bytes) {
       return bytesTo(bytes, "UTF8");
}

public static String bytesTo(byte[] bytes, String encode) {
       try {
           return new String(bytes, encode);
       } catch (UnsupportedEncodingException e) {
           e.printStackTrace();
           return EMPTY_STRING;
       }
   }
}}}

I hope it will help to find the solution using your programming language.

= Mac and Sequel =

_From the letter of the user, who successfully solved encoding problems._

It was used the Mac MySQL frontend Sequel (similar to
MySQLWorkbench, at least for the basic features).

The following variables were used (actually, _client and _database were "binary" also, but somehow they changed to utf8):

character_set_client     utf8
character_set_connection    binary
character_set_database    utf8
character_set_filesystem   binary
character_set_results    latin1
character_set_server     binary
character_set_system    utf8

According to: [http://www.bluetwanger.de/blog/2006/11/20/mysql-and-utf-8-no-more-question-marks/ article] the variable "character_set_server" only determines the *default* encoding of new databases. 

Since a non-default encoding was chosen (during the creation of a database in order to load the Wiktionary parsed database dump file in), the above setting of `character_set_server` should be irrelevant.

It was created a database with encoding "cp1252 West European (latin1)".
Then dump file with encoding "Western (ISO Latin 1)" was imported to the MySQL database.

= Notes =
== SQLite database ==

If you prefer work with SQLite instead of MySQL, then install `wiwordik` application via Java Web Start.

After installation you can find the parsed Wiktionary database in
SQLite format on your computer in the folder:
C:\Documents and Settings\YOUR USER NAME\.wiwordik\

= Links =
* Markus Bertheau. [http://www.bluetwanger.de/blog/2006/11/20/mysql-and-utf-8-no-more-question-marks/ MySQL and UTF-8 — no more question marks!]