#summary How to speed up search of words in the database.
#labels database,schema,index,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

Wiktionary is a multilingual dictionary. But user usually is interested in words in one language. 

*Goal*: fast search of words in one of Wiktionary languages. E.g. search of English words in Russian Wiktionary.

= Definitions =

_Main language_ - native language in the Wiktionary, e.g. Russian language in Russian Wiktionary, or English in English Wiktionary.

= MySQL index tables =

{{{
-- Example of auto generated tables for each language code.

-- -----------------------------------------------------
-- Table `index_uk` - for direct search of Ukranian words
-- -----------------------------------------------------
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `index_uk` ;

CREATE  TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `index_uk` (
  `id` INT(10) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT ,
  `word_foreign` VARCHAR(255) BINARY NOT NULL COMMENT 'word (in Language \'uk\') found somewhere in the Wiktionary article' ,
  `page_title_native` VARCHAR(255) BINARY COMMENT 'page.page_title of this Wiktionary article in native language' ,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`) ,
  INDEX `word_foreign` (`word_foreign` ASC) ,
  INDEX `page_title_native` (`page_title_native` ASC) )
ENGINE = InnoDB
COMMENT = 'words with this language code (see table postfix)';
}}}

= Cases ==

There are three cases of parsing Wiktionary article. The following INSERT statements should be executed.

1) Word in main (native) language, e.g. russian word "вода" in Russian Wiktionary.
  * index_ru.word_foreign = "вода"
  * index_ru.page_title_native = NULL


Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages