#summary How to extract some information from the database wikt_parsed of the parsed Wiktionary. SQL query examples.
#labels SQL,parser,Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Introduction =

Download the parsed Wiktionary database from this site, e.g. `enwikt20XXXX_parsed.zip`. Unzip and upload to your local MySQL database.

See the structure (tables and relations) of the Wiktionary parsed database in the page [File_wikt_parsed_empty_sql].

= SQL query examples =
== From page to definitions ==

It's given an english word, e.g. [http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/transient transient]. The aim is to get all the definitions.

It could be concluded (from the figure with tables and relations of the Wiktionary parsed database, see above) that the following sequence of tables should be used: `page` -> `lang_pos` -> `meaning` -> `wiki_text`.

1. Table `page`.

{{{
mysql> SELECT id FROM page WHERE page_title="transient";
}}}

|| *id* || 
|| 33823 ||

2. The code of English language is *en*. Let's select identifier (`lang_id`) from the table `lang`.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM lang WHERE code="en";
}}}

|| *id* || *name* || *code* || *n_foreign_POS* || *n_translations* ||
|| 245 || English || en || 265060 || 0 ||

3. Table `page` -> `lang_pos`.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM lang_pos WHERE page_id=33823 AND lang_id=245;
}}}

|| id      || page_id || pos_id || lang_id || etymology_n || lemma || redirect_type ||
|| 1110123 ||   33823 ||      3 ||     245 ||           0 ||       ||          NULL ||
|| 1110124 ||   33823 ||     11 ||     245 ||           1 ||       ||          NULL ||

There are two records in the table `lang_pos` with different part of speech identifier (field `pos_id`, see the table `part_of_speech`). Let's work with adjective (first record, pos_id=3), then lang_pos.id=1110123

4. Table `lang_pos` -> `meaning`.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM meaning WHERE lang_pos_id=1110123;
}}}

|| id      || lang_pos_id || meaning_n || wiki_text_id ||
|| 1431934 ||     1110123 ||         0 ||      1589097 ||
|| 1431935 ||     1110123 ||         1 ||      1589106 ||
|| 1431936 ||     1110123 ||         2 ||      1589107 ||
|| 1431937 ||     1110123 ||         3 ||      1589109 ||
|| 1431938 ||     1110123 ||         4 ||      1589110 ||
|| 1431939 ||     1110123 ||         5 ||      1589111 ||
|| 1431940 ||     1110123 ||         6 ||      1589112 ||

OK. There are 7 definitions for the adjective [http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/transient transient].

5. Table `meaning` -> `wiki_text`.

Let's extract the text of the first meaning from the table `wiki_text`.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM wiki_text WHERE id=1589097;
}}}

|| id      || text                                           ||
|| 1589097 || Passing or disappearing with time; transitory. ||


== Synonyms ==

Let's get list of synonyms for the second meaning of English noun "[http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/iron iron]".

Sequence of tables:
  #) page & lang & part_of_speech -> lang_pos -> meaning
  #) relation_type & meaning -> relation -> wiki_text

=== 1) page -> meaning ===

{{{
mysql> SELECT id FROM page WHERE page_title="iron";
}}}

The entry "iron" has page_id = 41364.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM lang WHERE code="en";
}}}

The language code "en" has lang_id = 285.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM part_of_speech WHERE name="noun";
}}}

The part of speech "noun" has pos_id = 38.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM lang_pos WHERE page_id=41364 AND lang_id=285 AND pos_id=38;
}}}

The English noun "iron" has lang_pos_id=460576.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM meaning WHERE lang_pos_id=460576 AND meaning_n=1;
}}}

The second meaning (n=1, start from zero) of English noun "iron" has meaning_id=608448, wiki_text_id=796355.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM wiki_text WHERE id=796355;
}}}

The second meaning of "iron" has definition: 

_{{countable}} A tool or appliance made of metal, which is heated and then used to transfer heat to something else; most often a thick piece of metal fitted with a handle and having a flat, roughly triangular bottom, which is heated and used to press wrinkles from clothing, and now usually containing an electrical heating apparatus._

=== 2) relation_type & meaning -> relation -> wiki_text ===

{{{
mysql> SELECT id FROM relation_type WHERE name="synonyms";
}}}

The Synonymy relation has relation_type_id=8.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM relation WHERE meaning_id=608448 AND relation_type_id=8;
}}}

The second meaning of "iron" has two synonyms with wiki_text_id 796356 and 796357.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM wiki_text WHERE id=796356;
mysql> SELECT * FROM wiki_text WHERE id=796357;
}}}

The second meaning of "iron" has two synonyms:
  * _flatiron {{qualifier|old-fashioned}}_;
  * _smoothing iron {{qualifier|old-fashioned}}_.

== Translate word from one language to another ==

We consider two ways to get translations by using English Wiktionary:
    * _direct translation_ - from English word to words in other languages, which are listed in the section _Translation_ of the entry;
    * _reverse translation_ - from the non-English word in the section _Translation_ to the English title (header) of the entry;

=== 1) Translate from English ===

Let's find translation of the English (*en* code) word [http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/anecdote anecdote] into Portuguese language by the first way (_direct translation_).

1. The code of English language is *en*. Let's select identifier (`lang_id`) from the table `lang`.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM lang WHERE code="en";
}}}

|| *id* || *name* || *code* || *n_foreign_POS* || *n_translations* ||
|| 285 || English || en || 255327 || 0 ||

2. Table `page`.

{{{
mysql> SELECT id FROM page WHERE page_title="anecdote";
}}}

|| *id* || 
|| 245963 ||

3. Table `lang` and `page` -> `lang_pos`.

We have found ID of records in the tables `lang` and `page`, so we can find ID of records in the table `lang_pos`.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM lang_pos WHERE page_id=245963 AND lang_id=285;
}}}

|| id     || page_id || pos_id || lang_id ||
|| 138883 || 245963 ||     38 ||     285 || 

4. Table `lang_pos` -> `meaning`

Let's get ID of meaning (definition) by identifier from the table `lang_pos` (lang_pos_id).

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM meaning WHERE lang_pos_id=138883;
}}}

|| id     || lang_pos_id || meaning_n || wiki_text_id ||
|| 169914 ||      138883 ||         0 ||       244073 ||
|| 169915 ||      138883 ||         1 ||       244098 ||
|| 169916 ||      138883 ||         2 ||       244101 ||

So, there are three meaning for this word. Let's find translation for the first meaning with meaning_id = 169914.

5. Table `meaning` -> `translation`

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM translation WHERE meaning_id=169914;
}}}

|| id    || lang_pos_id || meaning_summary              || meaning_id ||
|| 13063 ||      138883 || short account of an incident ||     169914 ||

OK. translation_id = 13063

6. Language code of the target language (Portuguese) is "pt". We need to find lang_id.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM lang WHERE code="pt";
}}}

|| *id* || *name*     || *code*|| *n_foreign_POS* || *n_translations* ||
|| 756  || Portuguese || pt    || 8311            || 0                ||

lang_id = 756

7. Table `translation_entry` -> `wiki_text`

The list of records in the table `translation_entry` which corresponds to this (first) meaning:

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM translation_entry WHERE translation_id=13063 AND lang_id=756;
}}}

|| id     || translation_id || lang_id || wiki_text_id ||
|| 134181 ||          13063 ||     756 ||       244093 ||

`wiki_text_id=244093` will helps to find the translation word itself.

8. Result translation.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM wiki_text WHERE id=244093;
}}}

|| id     || text    ||
|| 244093 || anedota ||

Good job.

=== 2) Translate to English ===

Let's go back and will find reverse translation: from *anedota* in Portuguese to English. It should be *[http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/anecdote anecdote]*.

1. We know (see steps above) the IDs of English and Portuguese languages (but be carefull, since language ID is not constant, it could be different in different databases):

* English lang_id = 285
* Portuguese lang_id = 756

2. wiki_text -> wiki_text_id

We know the word in the Translation section in the Wiktionary entry to be found: *anedota*.

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM wiki_text WHERE text="anedota";
}}}

|| id     || text    ||
|| 244093 || anedota ||

3. Table `wiki_text_id` -> `translation_entry` -> `translation_id`

Portuguese lang_id = 756

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM translation_entry WHERE wiki_text_id=13063 AND lang_id=756;
}}}

|| id     || translation_id || lang_id || wiki_text_id ||
|| 134181 ||          13063 ||     756 ||       244093 ||

translation_id = 13063;

4.  Table `translation_id` -> `meaning` -> `meaning_id`

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM translation WHERE id=13063;
}}}

|| id    || lang_pos_id || meaning_summary              || meaning_id ||
|| 13063 ||      138883 || short account of an incident ||     169914 ||

meaning_id = 169914;

5. Table `meaning_id` -> `lang_pos` -> `lang_pos_id`

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM meaning WHERE id = 169914;
}}}

|| id     || lang_pos_id || meaning_n || wiki_text_id ||
|| 169914 ||      138883 ||         0 ||       244073 ||

lang_pos_id = 138883;

6. Table `lang` and `lang_pos_id` -> `page_id`.

English lang_id = 285

{{{
mysql> SELECT * FROM lang_pos WHERE lang_id=285 AND id=138883;
}}}

|| id     || page_id || pos_id || lang_id ||
|| 138883 || 245963 ||     38 ||     285 || 

page_id = 245963;

7. Table `page`. Gets word (headword, i.e. Wiktionary entry) by ID.

{{{
mysql> SELECT page_title FROM page WHERE id=245963;
}}}

|| *page_title* || 
|| anecdote ||



<wiki:comment>
== Warning ==

=== Empty definitions ===

If you run this query:

{{{
mysql> select * from page, lang_pos, meaning where wiki_text_id is NULL AND lang_pos_id=meaning.lang_pos_id AND page.id=lang_pos.page_id AND page.id < 100 GROUP BY page.id LIMIT 10;
}}}

then you will see the list of first N words (of 100 words) which has empty definitions (meanings.wiki_text_id is NULL), because... Because (1) the Wiktionary parser is not finished yet and (2) the Wiktionary has a lot of interesting templates which should be parsed correctly.

E.g. The result of this query contains the symbol [http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/!%3D !=]. It has null ``meanings.wiki_text_id``, because (IMHO) the entry contains the template _{{head|_ which is not parsed in this version of the parser. So the parser can not find the text of the definition due to this template. :(
</wiki:comment>


= See also =
  * [GettingStartedWiktionaryParser]
  * [d2rqMappingSPARQL]
  * [MRDQuote#SQL_queries MRDQuote]